# 6.2 Use Semantic Ranking in PostgreSQL

By leveraging the power of _semantic ranking_, you can improve the accuracy of data retrieval and help ensure the success of your Generative AI applications. In this task, you will create a user-defined function (UDF) in your database that utilizes [model inferencing capabilities of the Azure AI extension](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/generative-ai-azure-machine-learning). Specifically, the `azure_ml.invoke()` method of the extension will be called from within the UDF to seamlessly invoke a semantic ranking model directly within SQL queries.

???+ info "Your Semantic Ranker model was deployed to Azure ML."

    The deployment of this solution accelerator included executing a post-deployment script to download the [BGE-reranker-v2-m3](https://huggingface.co/BAAI/bge-reranker-v2-m3) semantic ranker model and deploy it as an Azure Machine Learning (AML) inference endpoint in your subscription. This model was selected because it is lightweight, easy to deploy, and provides fast inference.

## Create a reranking function

To simplify the integration of semantic ranking and invocation of the semantic ranker model from Azure ML, you will create a user-defined function (UDF). The function uses the `azure_ai` extension to directly make remote calls to the AML inference endpoint from a SQL query. Using the `azure_ml.invoke()` function within a UDF, you can make calls to the semantic ranker model.

??? info "You already configured the extension's connection to Azure ML"

    Recall that you already configured the Azure AI extension's connection to Azure ML in task [3.2 Configure the Azure AI extension](../03-Integrate-AI-Into-PostgreSQL/02.md) using the following commands:

    ```sql title=""
    SELECT azure_ai.set_setting('azure_ml.scoring_endpoint','<endpoint>');
    SELECT azure_ai.set_setting('azure_ml.endpoint_key', '<api-key>');
    ```

 The UDF will be defined within your SQL database, allowing you to seamlessly incorporate semantic ranking into your queries. You will use **pgAdmin** to create it.

1. Return to the open instance of **pgAdmin** on your local machine and ensure it is connected to your PostgreSQL database.

2. In the pgAdmin **Object Explorer**, expand databases under your PostgreSQL server.

3. Right-click the **contracts** database and select **Query Tool** from the context menu.

4. Run the following query to create the `semantic_reranking` function:

    ```sql title="Create Semantic Reranking UDF"
    CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION semantic_reranking(query TEXT, vector_search_results TEXT[])
    RETURNS TABLE (content TEXT, relevance jsonb) AS $$
    BEGIN
        RETURN QUERY
            WITH
            json_pairs AS(
            SELECT jsonb_build_object(
                        'pairs', 
                        jsonb_agg(
                            jsonb_build_array(query, content_)
                        )
                    ) AS json_pairs_data
                    FROM (
                        SELECT a.content as content_
                        FROM unnest(vector_search_results) as a(content)
                    )
            ), 
            relevance_scores AS(
                SELECT jsonb_array_elements(invoke.invoke) as relevance_results
                FROM azure_ml.invoke(
                            (SELECT json_pairs_data FROM json_pairs),
                            deployment_name=>'bgev2m3-v1', timeout_ms => 120000)
            ),
            relevance_scores_rn AS (
                SELECT *, ROW_NUMBER() OVER () AS idx
                FROM relevance_scores
            )
            SELECT a.content,
                   r.relevance_results
                FROM
                    unnest(vector_search_results) WITH ORDINALITY AS a(content, idx2)
                JOIN
                    relevance_scores_rn AS r(relevance_results, idx)
                ON
                    a.idx2 = r.idx;
    
    END $$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;
    ```

    ??? info "How does the `semantic_reranking function work?"

        The `semantic_reranking` function enhances search results by re-ranking them based on their semantic relevance to a given query. Here's a breakdown of how it works:

        **Input Parameters**

        - `query`: A text string representing the search query.
        - `vector_search_results`: An array of text strings representing the initial search results obtained from a vector search.

        **Return Value**

        - The function returns a table with two columns: `content` (the original search result content) and `relevance` (a JSONB object representing the relevance score).

        **Steps**

        - **Json Pairs Construction**: The function starts by constructing a JSON object that pairs the query with each initial search result.
        - **Relevance Scoring**: It then calls the `azure_ml.invoke` function to send the JSON pairs to an Azure Machine Learning endpoint, which computes the relevance scores for each pair. The results are returned as a JSON array.
        - **Row Number Assignment**: The relevance scores are assigned row numbers to maintain their order.
        - **Combining Results**: Finally, the function combines the original search results with corresponding relevance scores using the row numbers, ensuring that each result is paired with the correct relevance score.

        This function's overall purpose is to improve the relevance of search results by leveraging a semantic model hosted on Azure ML. This ensures that the results returned are more contextually relevant to the user's query.

## Test the UDF

To see how _semantic ranking_ works in your queries, you can execute a test query from **pgAdmin**. The example below shows how to perform semantic reranking of vector search results for the query "cost management and optimization" over the `sow_chunks` table using the `semantic_reranking` UDF you created.

1. In the **pgAdmin** query window, run the following query and observe the results.

    ```sql title="Semantic ranking query"
    WITH vector_results AS (
        SELECT content FROM sow_chunks c
        ORDER BY embedding <=> azure_openai.create_embeddings('embeddings', 'cost management and optimization')::vector
        LIMIT 10
    )
    SELECT content, relevance
    FROM semantic_reranking('cost management and optimization',  ARRAY(SELECT content from vector_results))
    ORDER BY relevance DESC
    LIMIT 3;
    ```

---

Next, you will update the `get_sow_chunks` function used by your copilot to use semantic ranking to improve the accuracy and quality of the copilot's responses.
