# 3.5 Optimize Vector Query Performance

The `vector` extension adds vector storage and similarity search capabilities to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server. Indexing can help improve the performance of vector queries against the database. Without indexes, the `vector` extension performs an exact search, which provides perfect recall at the expense of performance. To perform approximate nearest neighbor searches, you can create indexes on your data, which sacrifices recall for execution performance.

!!! tip "Always load your data before indexing it."

    Loading data before indexing creates the index faster and results in a more optimal layout.

## Index Types

There are three supported vector index types, each with its own pros and cons. You can learn more about the index types using these links:

- [Inverted File with Flat Compression](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/how-to-optimize-performance-pgvector#inverted-file-with-flat-compression-ivvflat) (IVVFlat)
- [Hierarchical Navigable Small Worlds](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/how-to-optimize-performance-pgvector#hierarchical-navigable-small-worlds-hnsw) (HNSW)
- [Disk Approximate Nearest Neighbor](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/how-to-optimize-performance-pgvector#disk-approximate-nearest-neighbor-diskann) (DiskANN)

The `IVFFlat` index has faster build times and uses less memory than `HNSW`, but it has lower query performance (in terms of the speed-recall tradeoff). `DiskANN` offers a great balance between highly accurate query performance and fast build times.

??? "Index Type Limitations"

    - To index a column, it must have dimensions defined. Attempting to index a column defined as `col vector` will result in the error: `ERROR: column does not have dimensions`.
    - When using `ivfflat` and `hnsw`, you are limited to indexing columns with 2000 dimensions or less. Attempting to index a column with more dimensions results in an error: `ERROR: column cannot have more than 2000 dimensions for INDEX_TYPE index where INDEX_TYPE is either ivfflat or hnsw`.

## Index Access and Vector Distance Functions

The `vector` type added to your database by the `vector` extension allows you to perform three types of searches on the stored vectors. You need to select the correct access function for your index to have the database consider your index when executing your queries.

| Distance Function | Index Access Function | Vector Operator | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| Cosine distance | `vector_cosine_ops` | `<=>` | Measures similarity between vectors by calculating the cosine of the angle between them. |
| L2 (or Euclidean) distance | `vector_l2_ops` | `<->` | Measures the straight-line distance between two vectors in multi-dimensional space. |
| Inner (dot) product | `vector_ip_ops` | `<#>` | Measures the similarity between two vectors by summing the products of their corresponding components. |

## Vector Operators

The _vector operators_ in the table above indicate the "distance operator" used to calculate the distances between two vectors in a multi-dimensional space. They are used when writing queries to calculate similarity. For example, in the following query, records are selected based on the similarity to the provided vector, where the cosine distance similarity is less than 0.5:

```sql title=""
SELECT * FROM sow_chunks
WHERE embedding <=> '[-0.031766646,-0.033289704,...,0.016508864,0.031440277]' < 0.5
```

## Create Vector Indexes

In the previous tasks, you added `vector` columns to several tables in your database and populated them with embeddings using the `azure_ai` extension and Azure OpenAI. To ensure queries over those embeddings are efficient, you will add `hnsw` indexes to each table to which you added a `vector` column.

_Select the tab for each table below and execute the `CREATE INDEX` statement to create an `hnsw` index._

=== "deliverables"

    Copy and paste the following SQL statement into a new query window in pgAdmin, then execute the query to add the index.

    ```sql
    CREATE INDEX deliverables_hnsw_idx ON deliverables USING hnsw (embedding vector_cosine_ops);
    ```

=== "invoice_line_items"

    Copy and paste the following SQL statement into a new query window in pgAdmin, then execute the query to add the index.

    ```sql
    CREATE INDEX line_items_hnsw_idx ON invoice_line_items USING hnsw (embedding vector_cosine_ops);
    ```

=== "invoice_validation_results"

    Copy and paste the following SQL statement into a new query window in pgAdmin, then execute the query to add the index.

    ```sql
    CREATE INDEX invoice_validation_results_hnsw_idx ON invoice_validation_results USING hnsw (embedding vector_cosine_ops);
    ```

=== "sow_chunks"

    Copy and paste the following SQL statement into a new query window in pgAdmin, then execute the query to add the index.
    
    ```sql
    CREATE INDEX sow_chunks_hnsw_idx ON sow_chunks USING hnsw (embedding vector_cosine_ops);
    ```

=== "sow_validation_results"

    Copy and paste the following SQL statement into a new query window in pgAdmin, then execute the query to add the index.

    ```sql
    CREATE INDEX sow_validation_results_hnsw_idx ON sow_validation_results USING hnsw (embedding vector_cosine_ops);
    ```
